

Nucamp Instructor Class Delivery Checklist 
Updated May 30th, 2020 
 
Support to students during the week 
1. Engage proactively with students during the week. Offer your help, don’t just wait for 
requests. Reach out via email and slack (Nucamp will provide email & slack templates). 
2. Manage your support time - Think of what times are the best for you to help students. 
Download the Slack & Moodle apps on your phone, if you ride public transportation or want 
to work on the go. Offer some regular ‘Office hours’ if this works best for you. 
3. Check daily progress of your students using the activity completion report in Learn 
4. Check the daily Nucamp instructor emails and carry out the recommended activities 
5. Make sure to grade your students’ assignments within 48h of submission 
You are expected to spend about 1h per day on your Nucamp activities outside of Saturdays. 
Days before the Workshop 
1. Bring 2 power strips for students to plug their laptops 
2. Prior to class, update the Powerpoint slides provided in the Instructor Content for each 
workshop with relevant information for your class. (For example, in Week 0, add your own 
photo and information about you). 
3. Briefly rehearse how to deliver the presentation 
4. Complete the course yourself before the class material is accessible to students on Monday 
so you can answer their specific questions during the week. 
5. Make sure to complete the workshop assignment yourself before Saturday - the worst 
situation for an instructor is to have students realize you haven’t done the assignment 
yourself or you are not prepared. This systematically leads to poor ratings from students. 
6. Have some extra assignments ready in case students finish early - for example, code 
challenges and extra resources from the week's lessons 
Before the Workshop begins (In-Person) 
1. Bring the Nucamp sign and place it outside the workshop class / location if appropriate 
2. Be at the workshop location at least 15 minutes before the class starts and logon to 
learn.nucamp.co to let the Nucamp Operations Center know you are present and that Wifi is 
working at the location. 
3. Setup Tables & Decide if you are going to lecture sitting or standing, and in which direction 
you will speak to make sure you are heard while not interfering with other classes (if any) 
4. Invite your students to sit comfortably while allowing everyone to find their seat. Make sure 
they sit in groups so they can work as teams. Do not allow students to sit alone. 
5. Have the specific workshop presentation ready 
6. Make sure all your students are present before starting - put a sign with your phone number 
on the entrance door for late arrivals 
Always keep your phone on and keep your slack open so you can be reached by students or 
Nucamp. 

Before the Workshop begins (in Videoconference) 
1. Make sure you are setup in a quiet room, in a professional setting, with no other person 
around you. Make sure people around you know you are working and should not be 
interrupted.  
2. Logon to learn.nucamp.co 15 minutes before the class starts to signal to Nucamp 
Operations Center that you are present, and your connection is working 
3. Test your camera, headphones and microphone in Zoom. Make sure your face is well 
framed in the video and well lit. 
4. Have the specific workshop presentation ready to share 
5. Open the online meeting using the host link and credentials available in your instructor 
profile at nucamp.co/instructor (Do not the student link or your own credentials).   
6. Greet students as they join. Make sure everyone has their camera turned-on & mic working. 
7. Make sure all your students are present before starting – Make a roll call 
Always keep your phone on and keep your slack open so you can be reached by students or 
Nucamp. 
At the start of the Workshop 
First Workshop 
1. Be personal. Introduce yourself and explain why you are here 
2. Make sure you tell the students that “you don't know everything, but are confident that you 
will help them find the answer” (don't set yourself up for failure by raising your own 
expectations too high) 
3. Go through the specific 1
st
 workshop sequence of introductions. 
Every Workshop 
1. Tone - Your initial conversation will set the tone for the entire class. Make sure you are 
engaging. Remind them why they are here, get them excited about the course to come, 
and/or about the progress they've already made. 
2. Ask the students to give a quick update on their week and any topic / issue they want to 
cover in the lecture part 
3. Explain the objective of the day 
During the Workshop Lecture Part (~45mn) 
1. 'Lecture' part: Go through the week's lessons one by one and make sure students have 
understood the key concepts. Do not rush through the slides or simply read them. Take 
the time to check that the students have understood the concept before moving on. 
2. Pick a few important concepts and share your screen as you write the code of one of the 
exercise demonstrating the concept  
3. Make sure to answer all Student questions before moving to the workshop first activity. 
During the Workshop Assignment Part (~3h) 
1. Time management - time management - time management! Make sure you are staying on 
the workshop schedule for each activity 
2. Make sure they have all read the instructions 

3. Group them in groups of 2-3 students at the start of the first activity - try to balance groups 
with at least 1 stronger and 1 weaker student in the same group. Videoconference: create 
breakout rooms as needed to allow groups to work together without disturbing others. 
4. Every 10-15mn walk the room and watch your students' progress while they work. 
Videoconference: If you’ve created breakout rooms, make sure to tour the rooms every 
15mn at the most. 
5. Ask students to share their screen and review their work, moving from one student to 
another every 5mn (10mn maximum) (in-person or in videoconference) 
6. Share your time between students in a fair way. Don't spend too much time on one problem 
and/or with one student. Offer a direction to the student (try this / search online for this) 
rather than explaining at length. Move-on to other students and circle back later. 
7. Help students who fall behind the group first, share the code they need to write if needed 
8. Some students will regularly not be prepared for class and expect to work only on 
Saturdays. You have limited time, so prioritize students who come to class prepared. 
9. Move to the next activity on schedule - share the code for the current section if needed to 
stay on schedule 
10. Don't dismiss the workshop early if students are done with the assignment - use the extra 
time to review code challenges and extra assignments 
11. Always be engaged with students! Online: Make sure to keep talking to students. 
Long silences kill classroom momentum when online (much more than in-person) 
Don'ts during the workshop 
1. Do not text, email or browse the internet for personal matters! Keep your private 
communications & activities outside of your workshop time. Be professional. 
2. Don't stay seated waiting too long / walk the in-person or virtual room 
3. Don't change the workshop flow, agenda or objective 
4. Don't introduce new concepts or technology stacks 
5. Do not record the workshop for students who are absent 
At the end of the workshop (Save 10mn for this) 
1. Wrap-up on the objective of the day - Be positive on what they've learned today 
2. Make sure they have uploaded their assignment (unless they still need to work on it). Make 
sure they press 'submit' after 'save' so that their assignment is not just saved in draft mode. 
3. If they have not completed their assignment - make it clear they need to do so by the end of 
the day. Be firm on this. 
In person workshops: 
4. Clean-up the working space you have used / put back furniture the way it was set before 
your arrival - don't forget your power plugs or Nucamp sign! 
5. Make sure all students have left the building before leaving yourself - explain it's our 
security policy if needed 
After the workshop 
1. Remind your students to submit their assignment if they haven't done it at the workshop 
2. Post the assignments of students in the Learn Assignment section to share with the class 
3. Grade the assignments by Tuesday 
4. Share the assignments by Wednesday - see specific video in your instructor course for 
guidelines on grading & sharing 